Nessie w/ Iceberg REST / post-release site changes (#8510)
projectnessie/nessie: site/docs/guides/try-nessie.md

# Getting Started with Nessie and Iceberg REST

> Nessie supports Apache Iceberg REST! Some of the features are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Nessie Catalog" is the new Nessie-backed implementation of the Apache Iceberg REST Catalog! Some of its features are:
```

Author: Why introduce a new "Nessie _Catalog_" to users?

> * All clients that "speak" Iceberg REST can work with Nessie, whether it's running under Java, Scala, Python or Rust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All clients that "speak" Iceberg REST can work with Nessie Catalog, whether it's running under Java, Scala, Python or Rust.
```

> * Nessie Catalog S3 and compatible object stores like [MinIO](https://min.io/), supporting both request signing and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Nessie Catalog supports Amazon S3 and compatible object stores like [MinIO](https://min.io/), including request signing and
```

  session tokens.
* (Currently experimental) support for Google Cloud Storage and ADLS Gen2.
* Plus all the existing Nessie features.

> To just give Nessie Catalog, so Nessie with Iceberg REST, a try we prepared a Docker/Podman compose file for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those wanting to give Nessie Catalog a try, we prepared a Docker/Podman compose file for you.
```

> Running Nessie on your laptop and access it using Spark SQL and Iceberg REST is not difficult. The following starts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running Nessie on your laptop and accessing it using Spark SQL and Iceberg REST is not difficult. The following starts
```

Nessie with Minio and a predefined bucket.

```bash
curl -o docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/projectnessie/nessie/main/docker/catalog-full/docker-compose.yml

docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up
# or use podman-compose, if you're using Podman
```

Once all the containers are running, you can run Spark-SQL:

```bash
spark-sql  \
  --packages "org.projectnessie.nessie-integrations:nessie-spark-extensions-3.5_2.12:{{ versions.nessie }},org.apache.iceberg:iceberg-spark-runtime-3.5_2.12:1.5.2" \
  --conf spark.sql.extensions=org.projectnessie.spark.extensions.NessieSparkSessionExtensions,org.apache.iceberg.spark.extensions.IcebergSparkSessionExtensions \
  --conf spark.sql.catalogImplementation=in-memory \
  --conf spark.sql.catalog.nessie.uri=http://127.0.0.1:19120/iceberg/main/ \
  --conf spark.sql.catalog.nessie.type=rest \
  --conf spark.sql.catalog.nessie=org.apache.iceberg.spark.SparkCatalog
```

!!! note

>     With Nessie all necessary configuration about the object store, in the above example it is S3 via MinIO, is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    With Nessie, all necessary configuration about the object store (in the above example, it is S3 via MinIO), is
```

    pushed from Nessie to the Iceberg client used by Spark. Requests from Spark/Iceberg to the object store are
    "secured" via Nessie, in the above example using S3 request signing. This means, that you do not configure
    object store credentials on your Iceberg REST clients.

And that's basically all to connect to Nessie using Iceberg REST and try it out _locally_ - from there it just works.

> The above docker/podman-compose configuration does a bunch of things for the convenience for a demo/try-out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above docker/podman-compose configuration does a bunch of things for the convenience of a demo/try-out.
```
